[[index|Hame Page]]

%toc index

== Modify the authority of folder(s) or file(s) ==
	1) To modify the ownership of file(s).<br>
    $ chown -R USER.NAME OBJ.NAME<br>
	2) To modify the group ownership of file(s).<br>
    $ chgrp -R GROUP.NAME OBJ.NAME<br>
    OR directly like this to change ownership and group at a time:<br>
	`$ chown -R USER.NAME:GROUP.NAME OBJ.NAME`<br>

== TAR ==
	1) Extract.<br>
    tar xvfj TARBALL.tar.bz2<br>
    tar xvfz TARBALL.tar.gz<br>
	2) Compress.<br>
    tar cvfj TARBALL.tar.bz2 FOLDERtoCOMPRESS<br>
    tar cvfz TARBALL.tar.gz FOLDERtoCOMPRESS<br>

== Mount Compile Server ==
Problem description<br>
    $ sudo mount -t nfs -o nolock 192.168.1.71:/home/yliao /home/yliao/mnt/compile_server<br>
    mount.nfs: access denied by server while mounting 192.168.1.71:/home/yliao<br>

Solution<br>
    $ sudo /etc/init.d/nfs-kernel-server start<br>
(NOTE: Run this command on server.)<br>

== Run scripts automatically ==
	Just modify this file "/etc/rc.d/rc.local", cause this script will run on each boot up.<br>

== Run command in another process without suspend terminal ==
	Add a & just follow the command sequence, such as:<br>
	`$ gedit xxx.c &`<br>
	Then there will print a PID repesent that process. When it is finished, there will print some message, too.<br>

== find and delete ==
	Delete specific files(dirs). As,<br>
	`find . -name ".svn" -exec rm -rf {} \;`<br>

== find only dir or file to do something ==
chmod only for directories:<br>
	`find . -type d -exec chmod 755 {} \;`<br>
chmod only for files:<br>
	`find . -type f -exec chmod 644 {} \;`<br>

== find text and replace ==
	`sed -i 's/TO_BE_REPLACED/NEW_STRING/g' FILE_NAME1 FILE_NAME2 ...`<br>
and we can also use following line to delete the last line:<br>
	`sed -i '$d' FILE_NAME`<br>

== remove trailing white spaces ==
	`sed -i 's/[ \t]*$//g' FILE_NAME1 FILE_NAME2 ...`<br>


== install openssh-server for remote accessing by others ==
	`sudo apt-get install openssh-server`<br>

== scp simple usage ==
	`scp yliao@192.168.1.71:/home/yliao/work/marlin4xxu.tar.bz2 .`<br>

== Concatenate files and output to a new file ==
	cat file1 file2 > newfile<br>

== Bluetooth Driver in Fedora 15 ==
The three main command we may use: *hciattach*, *hciconfig*, *hcitool*<br>
`$ lsusb`<br>
_Bus 006 Device 003: ID 0a12:0001 Cambridge Silicon Radio, Ltd Bluetooth Dongle (HCI mode)_<br>
`$ sudo hciconfig hci0 down`<br>
`$ sudo hciconfig hci0 up`<br>
`$ hcitool scan`<br>
If succeed, it would be like this:<br>
_Scanning ..._<br>
	_00:10:11:07:00:05	HC-05_<br>
Then we can use hci to control the Bluetooth Adapter.<br>

== tftp server ==
*(on UBUNTU 11.04 32-bit)*<br>
1) `sudo apt-get install xinetd tftp tftpd-hpa`<br>
2) Create a new file /etc/default/tftpd-hpa:<br>
{{{
#/etc/default/tftpd-hpa

TFTP_USERNAME="tftp"
TFTP_DIRECTORY="/opt/tftpboot"
TFTP_ADDRESS="192.168.1.130:69"
TFTP_OPTIONS="--secure"
}}}
3) `sudo service tftpd-hpa start`<br>
`tftpd-hpa start/running, process 17318`
That is ok.<br>
4) Testing<br>
`tftp 192.168.1.130`<br>
{{{
tftp> get image_yliao/sm/uImage
}}}

== Sourcery Tools Support Portal (Also resolve the problem to run 32-bit excutables on a 64-bit) ==
_On Android building, I got: bash: arm-eabi-gcc: no such file or directory_<br>
_After I resolve the CodeSourcery 64-bit problem, the GTV building can continue._<br>
_Maybe just need some packages to install._<br>
Source: https://sourcery.mentor.com/GNUToolchain/kbentry62<br>

What do I need to do to install and run Sourcery CodeBench on an x86 64-bit Linux host system?<br>
In order to use Sourcery CodeBench on an x86 64-bit Linux host system, you must have 32-bit system libraries installed. You can install these 32-bit libraries using your system's package management tool, or build them from source.<br>
Distribution Notes:<br>

*Debian/Ubuntu*<br>
The following 32-bit libraries are available as packages that can be installed using apt-get on the command line or graphically using Synaptic:<br>

        ia32-libs<br>
        ia32-libs-gtk (not required for Hardy 8.04 and later)<br>

To install these packages from the command line:<br>
`sudo apt-get install ia32-libs ia32-libs-gtk`<br>
Next you will need to use Getlibs to install a 32-bit version of xulrunner:<br>

        Download getlibs-all.deb<br>
        Install getlibs-all.deb by running:<br>
        `sudo dpkg -i getlibs-all.deb`<br>
        Install the 32-bit xulrunner by running:<br>
        `sudo getlibs -p xulrunner-1.9.2` (not necessary)<br>
        Setup the IDE to use your recently installed 32-bit xulrunner:<br>
        `export MOZILLA_FIVE_HOME=/usr/lib32/xulrunner-1.9.2.X` (not necessary)<br>
        Substitute X for the version you see installed on your system. You will need to set this environment variable every time you start the IDE.

*Red Hat Enterprise Linux*<br>
The following 32-bit library is available as a package that can be installed using the up2date command:<br>

        glibc-devel<br>

To install this package from the command line:<br>
`up2date-nox -i --arch=i386 glibc`<br>

*Fedora*<br>
If working with a new installation of the operating system please run yum update before attempting the following steps.<br>
Logged in as the root user run the following:<br>

    Fedora 14:<br>
    `yum install glibc-devel.i686 gtk2-devel.i686 gtk-nodoka-engine.i686 \`<br>
    `libcanberra.i686 libcanberra-gtk2.i686 PackageKit-gtk-module.i686 \`<br>
    `GConf2.i686 ncurses-libs.i686 xulrunner.i686`<br>

    Fedora 11:<br>
    `yum install glibc-devel.i586 gtk2-devel.i586 gtk-nodoka-engine.i586 \`<br>
    `libcanberra.i586 libcanberra-gtk2.i586 PackageKit-gtk-module.i586 \`<br>
    `GConf2.i586 ncurses-libs.i586 xulrunner.i586`<br>

*Generic Linux*<br>
The following 32-bit libraries must be installed with versions greater than or equal to those listed here:<br>

        GLIBC 2.3<br>
        GTK 2.2.1<br>
        ATK 1.2.0<br>
        glib 2.2.1<br>
        Pango 1.2.1<br>
        Freetype 2.1.3<br>
        Ncurses 5.0<br>
        XULRunner 1.9.1<br>

== Install Sun Java in Ubuntu 11.04 ==
Since sun java is not in ubuntu official repo source, we need to add it:<br>
`sudo add-apt-repository ppa:ferramroberto/java`<br>
`sudo apt-get update`<br>
`sudo apt-get install sun-java6-jre sun-java6-plugin sun-java6-jdk`<br>

== Download Directories from FTP use wget ==
Such as:<br>
`wget ftp://ftp.cn.freebsd.org/pub/FreeBSD/releases/amd64/8.2-RELEASE/* -r`<br>

== Components Needed for Fedora 15 ==
gnome-tweak-tool<br>
dconf-editor<br>

== Fedora Group Install Development Tools ==
`sudo yum groupinstall 'Development Tools'`

== Call a Command, a Program or a Script, then Print the Log to a File ==
_COMMAND_ *>&* _FILENAME_<br>
e.g.<br>
`ls / >& log`<br>
Or even the command does not exist, the result "command not found" will also be there:<br>
`lk / >& log`<br>

== shortcuts in LXDE ==
For now, I just find the only way to modify shortcut keys.<br>
modify this file: */home/USERNAME/.config/openbox/lxde_rc.xml* or something alike.<br>

== Fedora 16 NFS Server ==
First of all,<br>
`sudo yum install nfs-utils`<br>
Then, run<br>
`system-config-firewall`<br>
In this application, open ports related to nfs: 111, 2049<br>
Next, edit `etc/exports` to add the directory you would like to use as nfs, like:<br>
`/home/librae/workspace/tq *(rw,sync,no_root_squash)`<br>
Operation above can be checked with `sudo exportfs -v`<br>
After that, go to edit nfs configuration files,<br>
`sudo mv /etc/sysconfig/nfs /etc/sysconfig/nfs.bak`<br>
`sudo mv /etc/sysconfig/nfs.rpmnew /etc/sysconfig/nfs`<br>
Then edit `/etc/sysconfig/nfs` to include whatever you actually need from `/etc/sysconfig/nfs.bak`<br>
My `/etc/sysconfig/nfs` file:<br>
{{{
#
# Path to remote quota server. See rquotad(8)
#RQUOTAD="/usr/sbin/rpc.rquotad"
# Port rquotad should listen on.
RQUOTAD_PORT=875
# Optinal options passed to rquotad
RPCRQUOTADOPTS=""
#
# Optional arguments passed to in-kernel lockd
#LOCKDARG=
# TCP port rpc.lockd should listen on.
LOCKD_TCPPORT=32803
# UDP port rpc.lockd should listen on.
LOCKD_UDPPORT=32769
#
# Optional arguments passed to rpc.nfsd. See rpc.nfsd(8)
RPCNFSDARGS=""
# Number of nfs server processes to be started.
# The default is 8.
RPCNFSDCOUNT=8
# Set V4 grace period in seconds
#NFSD_V4_GRACE=90
#
# Optional arguments passed to rpc.mountd. See rpc.mountd(8)
RPCMOUNTDOPTS=""
#
# Optional arguments passed to rpc.statd. See rpc.statd(8)
STATDARG=""
#
# Optional arguments passed to rpc.idmapd. See rpc.idmapd(8)
RPCIDMAPDARGS=""
#
# Optional arguments passed to rpc.gssd. See rpc.gssd(8)
RPCGSSDARGS=""
#
# Optional arguments passed to rpc.svcgssd. See rpc.svcgssd(8)
RPCSVCGSSDARGS=""
#
# To enable RDMA support on the server by setting this to
# the port the server should listen on
#RDMA_PORT=20049
#
# Optional arguments passed to blkmapd. See blkmapd(8)
BLKMAPDARGS=""
}}}
Well, config ok now, let's enable and start nfs-server service<br>
`sudo systemctl enable nfs-server.service`<br>
`sudo systemctl start nfs-server.service`<br>
All done. *Reboot* computer and use this to verify:<br>
`sudo systemctl status nfs-server.service`<br>
`rpcinfo -p`<br>
*NOTE!*<br>
We *MUST* ensure these services are running:<br>
{{{
systemctl status rpcbind.service
systemctl status nfs-server.service
systemctl status nfs-lock.service
systemctl status nfs-idmap.service
}}}
On client machines, we use following command to mount this nfs server, like:<br>
`sudo mount -t nfs 192.168.11.6:/home/librae /home/librae/mnt/nbook`<br>
    *Tips:*<br>
    check nfs service: `systemctl -a | grep nfs`<br>
    nfs config files are located in `/etc/sysconfig`<br>
    external links:<br>
    http://www.server-world.info/en/note?os=Fedora_16&p=nfs<br>
    http://weisjohn.blog.163.com/blog/#m=0&t=3&c=nfs<br>
    http://forums.fedoraforum.org/showthread.php?t=273173<br>

Actually, this version of nfs can be started easily, steps above are redundent.<br>
# edit `/etc/exports`
# start those four services
# All done!

== Check pts no. & Communication Between Terminals ==
`ls -hl /proc/self/fd`<br>
This will print the pts no. you are on.<br>
e.g.:<br>
{{{
yliao@yliao-l-d:~/Public/librae8226.github.com$ ls /proc/self/fd -hl
total 0
lrwx------ 1 yliao yliao 64 2011-12-19 15:08 0 -> /dev/pts/10
lrwx------ 1 yliao yliao 64 2011-12-19 15:08 1 -> /dev/pts/10
lrwx------ 1 yliao yliao 64 2011-12-19 15:08 2 -> /dev/pts/10
lr-x------ 1 yliao yliao 64 2011-12-19 15:08 3 -> /proc/1610/fd
}}}
Then if we type<br>
`echo "Hi there" > /dev/pts/10`<br>
See what will happen :P<br>

== Build RaLink RT3090 WLAN Card Driver Manually (FC16) ==
*Foreword*<br>
*--------*<br>
Machine: Lenovo B450 (RT3090 Wireless 802.11n 1T/1R PCIe) (use `lspci -vnn` to see it)<br>
OS: Fedora 16<br>
Results: Failed to connect my notebook to wifi ap router, but use this driver, we can scan the environment, indeed. That is, it works.<br>

*Procedure*<br>
*---------*<br>
# Download rpm src from RussianFedora: http://koji.russianfedora.ru/koji/buildinfo?buildID=750<br>
# Extract it and we can see a folder like *rt3090-kmod-2.4.0.4-3.fc16.8.R.src*<br>
# Patch all the patches in the folder to src files in *2010_1217_RT3090_LinuxSTA_V2.4.0.4_WiFiBTCombo_DPO.zip*<br>use `patch -p0 xxx.patch` in the *.src* root folder is just fine.<br>
# `make`<br>
# `sudo make install`<br>
# blacklist rt2800, rt28xx drivers in */etc/modprobe.d/blacklist.conf*<br>
# `depmod -a ${shell uname -r}`<br>
# reboot<br>
# bringup: `sudo ifconfig ra0 up`<br>
# scan: `iwlist ra0 scan`<br>
# connect: `sudo iwconfig ra0 essid XXXX`<br>
# longging to further debugging....<br>

== Fedora 16 Fail to Bootup into Graphics Because of NVIDIA Driver ==
*Do* below steps to remove nvidia driver and enable default noveau driver,<br>
then install nvidia driver again.<br>
{{{
su
yum remove nvidia*
mv /boot/initramfs-$(uname -r)-nouveau.img /boot/initramfs-$(uname -r).img
dracut /boot/initramfs-$(uname -r).img $(uname -r)
removed "rdblacklist=nouveau nouveau.modeset=0" from GRUB_CMDLINE_LINUX
grub2-mkconfig -o /boot/grub2/grub.cfg
reboot
}}}

== Fedora 16 Get USB access priority ==
`sudo usermod -a -G uucp,dialout,lock $USER`<br>
Then logout -> login<br>

== Fedora 16 Chrome Shockwave Flash Player Crash ==
Add line below in Chrome script */opt/google/chrome/google-chrome*<br>
`export LD_PRELOAD=/usr/lib/libGL.so.1`<br>

== Fedora 16 Disable SELinux ==
Temporary:<br>
`sudo setenforce 0`<br>
Always:<br>
`vi /etc/sysconfig/selinux`<br>
Then set it to *disabled*<br>

== Fedora 16 Setup TFTP Server ==
{{{
sudo yum install tftp*
vi /etc/xinetd.d/tftp
--------------------------------------------
service tftp
{
	disable		= no
	socket_type	= dgram
	protocol	= udp
	wait		= yes
	user		= root
	server		= /usr/sbin/in.tftpd
	server_args	= -s /opt/tftpboot
	per_source	= 11
	cps		= 100 2
	flags		= IPv4
}
--------------------------------------------
sudo /sbin/chkconfig tftp on
sudo systemctl enable xinetd.service
sudo systemctl start xinetd.service

vi /etc/sysconfig/iptables
----------------------------------------------------------------
-A INPUT -m state --state NEW -m udp -p udp --dport 69 -j ACCEPT
----------------------------------------------------------------

vi /etc/sysconfig/selinux
----------------
SELINUX=disabled
----------------
}}}

== Fedora 16 Samba Service ==
{{{
sudo yum install samba samba-client
sudo systemctl enable smb.service
sudo systemctl start smb.service
}}}
Use below command to mount target samba server:<br>
`sudo mount.cifs //10.38.120.39/tftpboot /home/yrliao/mnt/tftp_mv -o username=yrliao,password=123456`<br>

== Make ssh/scp/rsync work Without Password ==
Make use of a file *~/.ssh/authorized_keys* (mode 700) is just fine. <br>
Refer to externel link:<br>
https://blogs.oracle.com/jkini/entry/how_to_scp_scp_and<br>

== Fedora 16 LXDE Keyboard Layout Problem ==
use command below to set it to default, us layout:<br>
`setxkbmap us`<br>

== Fedora 16 LXDE Desktop Icons Disappear ==
`lxde --desktop &`<br>

== Fedora 16 LXDE Desktop Openbox Reload "lxde-rc.xml" ==
`openbox --reconfigure`<br>
Refer to this link:<br>
http://linux-commands.wikidot.com/howto-s:lxde <br>

== Fedora 16 Make It Work: Bluetooth Dongle with HC-05 rfcomm ==
1. Install "blueman".<br>
`# yum install blueman`<br>
2. Connect Bluetooth dongle and slave HC-05.<br>
3. Search and pair device.<br>
4. Right click HC-05 in blueman, select "Dev B".<br>
`Serial port connected to /dev/rfcomm0`<br>
5. minicom -s (rfcomm0)<br>

== Restore Files That Was Removed by rm -rf ==
1. Download extundelete from http://extundelete.sourceforge.net/ <br>
2. It needs e2fslib, so install them:<br>
`# yum install e2fslib*` for Fedora.<br>
`# apt-get install e2fslib*` for Ubuntu.<br>
3. Put/excute extundelete in /tmp to avoid unexpected loss.<br>
4. Make sure the filesystem to be restored is unmount. So if it's home, we may use a dual boot OS to do this.<br>
5. Run:<br>
{{{
# extundelete --restore-files [OFFSET_PATH_OF_FS] [FS]
/*
 * Such as:
 * # extundelete --restore-files yrliao/workspace/sandlib/cpu_stat/stat.c /dev/sda6
 */
}}}

== Check What Files Are Opened by A Particular Process ==
{{{
	ls -l /proc/7857/fd
}}}

== List the First 10 Processes that Consume Most Memory ==
{{{
ps -e -o 'pid,comm,args,rsz,vsz,user' | sort -nrk4 | head
}}}

== Check Net Ports Status ==
Quotes from man nmap:<br>
The SYN scan and SYN ping (-sS and -PS) are very detailed,<br>
but the TCP connect scan (-sT) is limited by the implementation of the connect system call.<br>
{{{
# nmap -sT -O localhost
OR
# nmap -sS -O localhost
}}}
And we can also use this:<br>
{{{
$ netstat -lntu
}}}

== Create A swapfile for Linux ==
{{{
# install -o root -g root -m 0600 /dev/null /swapfile
# dd if=/dev/zero of=/swapfile bs=1k count=1024k
# mkswap /swapfile
# swapon /swapfile
# echo "/swapfile       swap    swap    auto      0       0" | tee -a /etc/fstab
# sysctl -w vm.swappiness=10
# echo vm.swappiness = 10 | tee -a /etc/sysctl.conf
}}}
Referred to: https://meta.discourse.org/t/create-a-swapfile-for-your-linux-server/13880 <br>

== Find Regular Files Only (Ignore Directories) ==
e.g in Makefile:<br>
{{{
@find $(SRCDIR) -name \*.o -prune -type f | xargs $(RM)
@find $(SRCDIR) -name \*.d -prune -type f | xargs $(RM)
}}}

== Sort for Particular Columns ==
e.g. in ousia build - sizes file:<br>
    `cat build/ousia.sizes | sort -k1,1n`<br>
{{{
      0	      0	      0	      0	      0	build/core/sys_ds.o
      0	      0	      0	      0	      0	build/core/sys_ictl.o
      0	      0	      0	      0	      0	build/framework/vfs/fileops.o
      0	      0	      0	      0	      0	build/platform/stm32/libmaple/stm32f1/fsmc.o
      0	      0	      0	      0	      0	build/platform/stm32/libmaple/stm32f1/performance/vector_table.o
   text	   data	    bss	    dec	    hex	filename
      2	      0	      0	      2	      2	build/platform/stm32/libmaple/stm32f1/performance/isrs.o
     20	      0	      0	     20	     14	build/platform/stm32/libmaple/flash.o
     20	      0	      0	     20	     14	build/platform/stm32/libmaple/gpio.o
     20	      0	      0	     20	     14	build/platform/stm32/libmaple/pwr.o
     24	      0	      0	     24	     18	build/core/sys_main.o
     24	      0	      0	     24	     18	build/platform/stm32/libmaple/start.o
     28	      0	      0	     28	     1c	build/platform/stm32/libmaple/stm32f1/exti.o
     36	      0	      0	     36	     24	build/platform/stm32/libmaple/usart_private.o
     48	      0	      4	     52	     34	build/core/sys_sync.o
     52	      0	      0	     52	     34	build/platform/stm32/libmaple/iwdg.o
     56	      0	      0	     56	     38	build/platform/stm32/libmaple/usb/usb_lib/usb_init.o
     64	      0	      4	     68	     44	build/core/sys_time.o
     92	      0	      0	     92	     5c	build/platform/stm32/libmaple/usb/usb_lib/usb_mem.o
     96	      0	      0	     96	     60	build/platform/stm32/libmaple/exc.o
    104	      0	      0	    104	     68	build/core/sys_debug.o
    104	      0	      0	    104	     68	build/platform/stm32/libmaple/dma.o
    112	      0	      0	    112	     70	build/platform/stm32/libmaple/start_c.o
    116	      0	      0	    116	     74	build/platform/stm32/libmaple/adc.o
    120	      0	      4	    124	     7c	build/project/sample_stm32/main.o
    128	      0	      0	    128	     80	build/platform/stm32/libmaple/util_hooks.o
    132	     24	      0	    156	     9c	build/platform/stm32/libmaple/stm32f1/spi.o
    140	     24	      0	    164	     a4	build/platform/stm32/libmaple/stm32f1/adc.o
    144	      0	      0	    144	     90	build/platform/stm32/libmaple/nvic.o
    152	      0	      0	    152	     98	build/platform/stm32/libmaple/rcc.o
    188	      8	      0	    196	     c4	build/platform/stm32/libmaple/stm32f1/bkp.o
    200	      0	      0	    200	     c8	build/platform/stm32/libmaple/dac.o
    200	      0	      8	    208	     d0	build/platform/stm32/libmaple/systick.o
    212	     32	      0	    244	     f4	build/platform/stm32/libmaple/stm32f1/gpio.o
    240	      0	      0	    240	     f0	build/platform/stm32/libmaple/spi.o
    256	      0	      0	    256	    100	build/platform/stm32/libmaple/usb/stm32f1/usb_reg_map.o
    288	    112	      0	    400	    190	build/platform/stm32/libmaple/stm32f1/i2c.o
    344	      0	      4	    348	    15c	build/core/ulib/string.o
    360	      0	      0	    360	    168	build/core/sys_mm.o
    368	      0	      0	    368	    170	build/platform/stm32/libmaple/usart.o
    428	      0	      8	    436	    1b4	build/platform/stm32/libmaple/util.o
    484	    252	     36	    772	    304	build/platform/stm32/libmaple/stm32f1/usart.o
    520	      0	      0	    520	    208	build/core/ulib/stdlib.o
    520	     20	      0	    540	    21c	build/platform/stm32/libmaple/stm32f1/rcc.o
    556	      0	      0	    556	    22c	build/platform/stm32/libmaple/stm32f1/timer.o
    572	      0	     64	    636	    27c	build/project/sample_stm32/eeprom.o
    688	      0	    128	    816	    330	build/platform/stm32/libmaple/exti.o
    784	      0	     16	    800	    320	build/core/sys_print.o
    868	      0	      0	    868	    364	build/framework/console/cmd.o
    908	     20	      0	    928	    3a0	build/platform/stm32/libmaple/usb/stm32f1/usb.o
    928	    164	      0	   1092	    444	build/platform/stm32/libmaple/timer.o
   1060	      0	    464	   1524	    5f4	build/framework/console/console.o
   1188	      0	     36	   1224	    4c8	build/core/sys_utils.o
   1276	      4	      1	   1281	    501	build/platform/stm32/utils/utils.o
   1304	     68	      0	   1372	    55c	build/platform/stm32/libmaple/stm32f1/dma.o
   1460	      0	      0	   1460	    5b4	build/core/mm_std.o
   1600	    192	     86	   1878	    756	build/platform/stm32/libmaple/usb/stm32f1/usb_cdcacm.o
   1776	      0	      0	   1776	    6f0	build/platform/stm32/libmaple/i2c.o
   1852	      0	     16	   1868	    74c	build/platform/stm32/port/ousia_port.o
   1968	      0	      0	   1968	    7b0	build/platform/stm32/libmaple/usb/usb_lib/usb_regs.o
   2344	      0	      1	   2345	    929	build/platform/stm32/libmaple/usb/usb_lib/usb_core.o
   2544	      0	   2048	   4592	   11f0	build/project/sample_stm32/mlcd.o
   2556	      0	     36	   2592	    a20	build/core/sys_sched.o
  32674	    920	   2964	  36558	   8ece	(TOTALS)
}}}

%template header-footer
